{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs52\lang9 Database:\par
\b0\fs32 CREATE DATABSE dbms;\par
USE dbms;\par
\par
 CREATE TABLE department\par
(\par
  Dno int(11) NOT NULL,\par
  Dname varchar(50) DEFAULT NULL,\par
  Location varchar(50) DEFAULT NULL,\par
  PRIMARY KEY (Dno)\par
)\par
\par
 INSERT INTO department VALUES\par
(10,'Accounting','New York'),\par
(20,'Research','Dallas'),\par
(30,'Sales','Chicago'),\par
(40,'Operation','Boston'),\par
(50,'Marketing','New Delhi');\par
CREATE TABLE employee\par
 (\par
  Eno char(3) NOT NULL,\par
  Ename varchar(50) NOT NULL,\par
  Job_type varchar(50) NOT NULL,\par
  Manager char(3) DEFAULT NULL,\par
  Hire_date date NOT NULL,\par
  Dno int(11) DEFAULT NULL,\par
  Commission decimal(10,2) DEFAULT NULL,\par
  Salary decimal(7,2) NOT NULL,\par
  PRIMARY KEY (Eno),\par
  CONSTRAINT Dno FOREIGN KEY (Dno) REFERENCES department (Dno),\par
  CONSTRAINT Manager FOREIGN KEY (Manager) REFERENCES employee (Eno)\par
)\par
INSERT INTO employee VALUES ('736','Smith','Clerk','790','1981-12-17',20,0.00,1000.00),\par
('749','Allan','Sales_man','769','1981-02-20',30,300.00,2000.00),\par
('752','Ward','Sales_man','769','1981-02-22',30,500.00,1300.00),\par
('756','Jones','Manager','783','1981-04-02',20,0.00,2300.00),\par
('765','Martin','Sales_man','784','1981-04-22',30,1400.00,1250.00),\par
('769','Blake','Manager','783','1981-05-01',30,0.00,2870.00),\par
('778','Clark','Manager','783','1981-06-09',10,0.00,2900.00),\par
('783','King','President',NULL,'1981-11-17',10,0.00,2950.00),\par
('784','Turner','Sales_man','769','1981-09-08',30,0.00,1450.00),\par
('787','Adams','Clerk','778','1983-01-12',20,0.00,1150.00),\par
('788','Scott','Analyst','756','1982-12-09',20,0.00,2850.00),\par
('790','James','Clerk','769','1981-12-03',30,0.00,950.00),\par
('792','Ford','Analyst','756','1981-12-03',20,0.00,2600.00),\par
('793','Miller','Clerk','788','1982-01-23',40,0.00,1300.00);\par
\b\fs52\par
Question:\par
\b0\fs32 1. Query to display Employee Name, Job, Hire Date, Employee Number; for each employee \par
with the Employee Number appearing first.\par
2. Query to display unique Jobs from the Employee Table.\par
3. Query to display the Employee Name concatenated by a Job separated by a comma.\par
4. Query to display all the data from the Employee Table. Separate each Column by a comma\par
and name the said column as THE_OUTPUT.\par
5. Query to display the Employee Name and Salary of all the employees earning more than\par
$2850.\par
6. Query to display Employee Name and Department Number for the Employee No= 79.\par
7. Query to display Employee Name and Salary for all employees whose salary is not in the\par
range of $1500 and $2850.\par
8. Query to display Employee Name and Department No. of all the employees in Dept 10 and\par
Dept 30 in the alphabetical order by name.\par
9. Query to display Name and Hire Date of every Employee who was hired in 1981.\par
10. Query to display Name and Job of all employees who have not assigned a supervisor.\par
11. Query to display the Name, Salary and Commission for all the employees who earn\par
commission.\par
12. Sort the data in descending order of Salary and Commission.\par
13. Query to display Name of all the employees where the third letter of their name is \lquote A\rquote .\par
14. Query to display Name of all employees either have two \lquote R\rquote s or have two \lquote A\rquote s in their \par
name and are either in Dept No = 30 or their Manger\rquote s Employee No = 7788.\par
15. Query to display Name, Salary and Commission for all employees whose Commission\par
amount is greater than their Salary increased by 5%.\par
16. Query to display the Current Date along with the day name.\par
17. Query to display Name, Hire Date and Salary Review Date which is the 1st Monday after \par
six months of employment.\par
18. Query to display Name and calculate the number of months between today and the date \par
on which employee was hired of department \lquote Purchase\rquote .\par
19. Query to display the following for each employee <E-Name> earns < Salary> monthly \par
but wants < 3 * Current Salary >. Label the Column as Dream Salary.\par
20. Query to display Name with the 1st letter capitalized and all other letter lower case and\par
length of their name of all the employees whose name starts with \lquote J\rquote , \rquote A\rquote  and \lquote M\rquote .\par
21. Query to display Name, Hire Date and Day of the week on which the employee started.\par
22. Query to display Name, Department Name and Department No for all the employees.\par
23. Query to display Unique Listing of all Jobs that are in Department number 30.\par
24. Query to display Name, Dept Name of all employees who have an \lquote A\rquote  in their name.\par
25. Query to display Name, Job, Department No. And Department Name for all the \par
employees working at the Dallas location.\par
26. Query to display Name and Employee no. Along with their supervisor\rquote s Name and the\par
supervisor\rquote s employee no; along with the Employees\rquote  Name who do not have a supervisor.\par
27. Query to display Name, Dept No. And Salary of any employee whose department No. \par
and salary matches both the department no. And the salary of any employee who earns a\par
commission.\par
28. Query to display Name and Salaries represented by asterisks, where each asterisk (*)\par
signifies $100.\par
29. Query to display the Highest, Lowest, Sum and Average Salaries of all the employees\par
30. Query to display the number of employees performing the same Job type functions.\par
31. Query to display the total number of supervisors without listing their names.\par
32. Query to display the Department Name, Location Name, No. of Employees and the \par
average salary for all employees in that department.\par
33. Query to display Name and Hire Date for all employees in the same dept. as Blake.\par
34. Query to display the Employee No. And Name for all employees who earn more than the\par
average salary.\par
35. Query to display Employee Number and Name for all employees who work in a \par
department with any employee whose name contains a \lquote T\rquote .\par
36. Query to display the names and salaries of all employees who report to supervisor named \par
\lquote King\rquote\par
37. Query to display the department no, name and job for all employees in the Sales \par
department\par
38. Display names of employees along with their department name who have more than 20 \par
years experience\par
39. Display total number of departments at each location\par
40. Find the department name in which at least 20 employees work in.\par
41. Query to find the employee\rquote  name who is not supervisor and name of supervisor \par
supervising more than 5 employees.\par
42. Query to display the job type with maximum and minimum employees.\b\fs52\par
Query\par
\b0\fs28 1.\par
  select Eno \par
     Ename ,\par
     Job_type ,\par
     Hire_date \par
From Employee;\par
 \par
2.\par
SELECT DISTINCT job_type FROM Employee;\par
 \par
3\par
                 \par
\par
 SELECT CONCAT(Ename , ', ',job_type)  from Employee;\par
 \par
\par
4.\par
//concat_ws(separator,string1,string2,\'85)  separator between every strings\par
//concat(string1,string2,..) no separator only string value add\par
\par
SELECT CONCAT_WS(', ',Eno,Ename,\par
Job_type,SupervisonENO,Hire_date,\par
Dno,Commission,Salary) \par
AS THE_OUTPUT \par
FROM EMPLOYEE;\par
 \par
5.\par
Select Ename,Salary from Employee\par
Where Salary>2850;\par
 \par
6\par
Select Ename,Dno from Employee\par
Where Eno=7900;\par
 \par
7.\par
Select Ename,Salary from Employee\par
Where Salary Not Between 1500 and 2850;\par
 \par
\par
\par
8\par
Select Ename,Dno from Employee\par
Where Dno=10 and Dno= 30\par
Order by Ename;\par
 \par
9\par
Select Ename, Hire_date from Employee\par
Where year(Hire_date)=1981;\par
 \par
\par
10\par
Select Ename, job_type\par
From Employee\par
Where SupervisonENO is null;\par
 \par
11. SELECT Ename , Salary , Commission\par
FROM Employee\par
WHERE Commission > 0.00 AND Commission IS NOT NULL;\par
 \par
12.\par
ALTER TABLE Employee\par
ORDER BY Salary DESC, Commission DESC;\par
 \par
\par
13.\par
SELECT Ename FROM Employee\par
WHERE Ename LIKE '__A%';\par
 \par
\par
14.\par
SELECT Ename FROM Employee\par
WHERE (Ename LIKE '%r%r%' OR Ename LIKE '%a%a%')\par
AND (Dno=30 OR SupervisonENO='778');\par
 \par
15\par
SELECT Ename, Salary, Commission\par
FROM EMPLOYEE\par
WHERE Commission > Salary+(Salary*0.05);\par
\par
 \par
16.\par
SELECT NOW();\par
 \par
17.\par
SELECT Ename,Hire_date,date_add(date_add(Hire_date,INTERVAL 6 MONTH),INTERVAL (7-WEEKDAY(date_add(Hire_date,INTERVAL 6 MONTH))) DAY) AS REVIEW_DATE FROM employee;\par
 \par
18.\par
SELECT Ename,12 *  (YEAR(curdate())-YEAR(Hire_date)) + (MONTH(CURDATE())-MONTH(Hire_date)) AS MONTHS FROM employee;\par
 \par
\par
19.\par
SELECT concat(Ename,' earns ',Salary,' monthly but wants ', (3*Salary)) AS dream_salary FROM employee;\par
 \par
20.\par
SELECT CONCAT(UPPER(SUBSTRING(Ename,1,1)),LOWER(SUBSTRING(Ename,2,50))) AS NAME,LENGTH(Ename) FROM employee where Ename like 'J%' OR Ename LIKE 'A%' OR Ename LIKE 'M%';\par
 \par
21\par
SELECT Ename,Hire_date , DAYNAME(Hire_date) from employee;\par
 \par
22\par
SELECT a.Ename,b.dname,a.dno FROM employee as a,department as b WHERE a.dno=b.dno;\par
 \par
23.\par
\par
 \par
24.\par
SELECT a.Ename,b.dname from employee as a,department as b WHERE a.dno=b.dno and a.ename LIKE 'A%';\par
 \par
25.\par
SELECT a.Ename,a.dno,b.dname from employee as a,department as b WHERE a.dno=b.dno and b.Location='Dallas';\par
 \par
26.\par
SELECT e.ename,e.eno,s.ename,s.eno from employee as e  LEFT OUTER JOIN employee as s ON e.SupervisionENO=s.eno;\par
 \par
27.\par
SELECT Ename,dno,salary from employee WHERE (dno, salary) in (SELECT dno,salary from employee  WHERE commission >0);\par
\par
 \par
28.\par
SELECT ename,repeat('*',salary/100) as salary from employee;\par
 \par
29.\par
SELECT sum(salary) as salary, max(salary)as maximum,min(salary) as minimum ,AVG(salary) as average from employee;\par
\par
 \par
30.\par
SELECT count(job_type) FROM employee GROUP by job_type;\par
\par
 \par
31.\par
SELECT COUNT(DISTINCT SupervisionENO) FROM employee;\par
 \par
32.\par
SELECT Dno,Location,\par
(SELECT COUNT(eno) FROM employee WHERE employee.Dno=d.Dno)as noofemplyee ,(SELECT AVG(salary) FROM employee WHERE employee.Dno=d.Dno)as avgsalary FROM department as d;\par
 \par
33.\par
SELECT ename,Hire_date FROM employee WHERE dno in (SELECT dno FROM employee  WHERE Ename='Blake');\par
 \par
34.\par
SELECT Eno,Ename FROM employee WHERE Salary> (SELECT AVG(Salary) FROM employee);\par
 \par
35.\par
SELECT Eno,Ename from employee WHERE dno in (SELECT dno FROM employee WHERE Ename LIKE '%T%');\par
 \par
36.\par
SELECT Ename,Salary from employee WHERE SupervisionENO in (SELECT eno FROM employee WHERE Ename='King');\par
 \par
37.\par
SELECT dno,Ename,Job_type FROM employee WHERE dno in (SELECT dno FROM department WHERE dname='Sales');\par
 \par
38.\par
SELECT Ename,dno from employee WHERE DATE_ADD(NOW(),INTERVAL 20 YEAR)>Hire_date;\par
 \par
39.\par
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM department GROUP by Location;\par
 \par
40.\par
SELECT Dname FROM department WHERE (SELECT COUNT(*)\par
                                    FROM employee as e WHERE e.dno=dno)>10;\par
 \par
41.\par
\par
SELECT GROUP_CONCAT(e.Ename ORDER BY e.Ename ASC SEPARATOR ', ') AS employee_names,s.Ename AS supervisor_name\par
FROM employee e\par
INNER JOIN employee s ON e.SupervisionENO = s.Eno\par
WHERE not(e.SupervisionENO is null)\par
GROUP BY e.SupervisionENO\par
HAVING COUNT(*)>5;\par
 \par
42.\par
SELECT *   \par
FROM \par
    (SELECT COUNT(*) AS no, job_type FROM employee GROUP BY job_type)AS a\par
 WHERE\par
no in (\par
    SELECT MAX(no) \par
    FROM (\par
        SELECT COUNT(*) AS no \par
        FROM employee\par
        GROUP BY job_type\par
    ) AS b\par
) OR no in (\par
    SELECT MIN(no) \par
    FROM (\par
        SELECT COUNT(*) AS no \par
        FROM employee\par
        GROUP BY job_type\par
\~\~\~\~)\~AS\~c\par
);\fs22\par
}
 